I have never seen a project blow up as
much as OpenClaw. It is the personal AI
assistant right now and people are
loving it because it feels like the
first agent that truly gets you. And
over time, it builds up a memory of what
you're working on and your preferences.
And it is a fully open-source tool. And
so this is the GitHub repository. They
exploded up to 185,000 stars. I have not
seen a repository on GitHub with this
many stars. even beats out N8N now,
which is just crazy to me. But it's no
secret that there are a lot of security
issues with OpenClaw, both because of
how much control we're giving to the
underlying agent and because of some
issues with the codebase itself. So that
plus wanting to build something more
custom to me has inspired me to
basically build my own version of
OpenClaw. That's what I want to talk to
you about today because it's easier than
you would think to take the ideas that
really make OpenClaw feel magical and
build it for yourself. I was able to
replicate everything that's powerful
about OpenClaw in just a couple of days.
Just took me a couple thousand lines of
Python code and markdown. And so I'll
talk about how I did it. You can do this
yourself pretty easily. And honestly, I
encourage you to do that. I think the
balance we should strike here is we
should learn from these powerful open-
source assistants that are out in the
wild, but build something ourself so we
truly understand and control the
solution and we can customize it to our
liking. Now, there are already some
open- source solutions that are a
lightweight and secure version of
OpenClaw like NanoClaw, but this just
didn't check all the boxes that I want
for my own personal assistant/secbrain.
That's why I'm building my own. Now, I
don't have a repo to share with you like
OpenClaw, but I would kind of defeat the
purpose of this video anyway. I'm trying
to make a point here that you should
build your own take inspiration from
these other tools like OpenClaw. That's
what I want to show you how to do right
now. Now, I have already shared some of
the skills that I have for my second
brain. So, there's a video I did on my
channel that I'll link to right here if
you want to check that out. I will be
sharing a lot more on my channel in the
coming months as I continue to build out
my assistant as well. So definitely stay
tuned for that. So anyway, I want to
really quickly cover some of the
security issues with OpenClaw. Then
we'll get into what are the beautiful
parts of the tool. How can we take it
for ourselves to build our own second
brain? And so there are two primary
lanes of security issues with OpenClaw.
I'm going to focus first on some of the
architecture issues with the codebase.
Recently, there was a one-click remote
code execution vulnerability that allows
attackers to steal all of your data and
keys from your OpenClaw instance. All
they have to do is get you to click on a
single malicious link, which it's pretty
easy to get a lot of different people to
click on malicious links. And then once
they do that, then it's going to send an
O token. Their OpenClaw will send an O
token back to the attacker. They can use
that to log into the victim's openclaw.
And because all the credentials are just
stored in plain text, they will now have
access to all of the API keys and tokens
for your platform adapters and other
things that you've given your personal
assistant access to. And then we also
have the issue with Claw Hub. This is a
marketplace that is publicly available
where people are publishing skills that
promise to extend the capabilities of
OpenClaw. But research found that there
are hundreds of malicious packages. And
so it's this beautiful concept that
people can share these ways to make open
cloud more powerful, but in reality it
falls apart because there are a ton out
there where really they're just stealing
your API keys, wallet private keys, SSH
credentials, the list goes on because
again everything is just stored in plain
text where you are hosting OpenClaw. And
also I've been doing a lot of research.
So, I'll have links to all this in the
description, by the way. But there was a
researcher where it took him fewer than
2 hours to hijack an OpenClaw instance,
get access to everything inside. Now,
the one thing that I will say is that
the creator of OpenClaw, Peter, he
really is doing a good job keeping up
with the security issues, adding new
features to OpenClaw. And so, I do have
hope that there is a good future for the
tool. But even if you address all of
these architecture problems like I'm
speaking to, I do think that OpenClaw
will still be a security nightmare as
Cisco puts it and that's because of that
second lane of security problems that I
am talking about. There is this massive
code base. Open Claw is pretty big. We
don't understand it and we're just
running it and trusting it. But it's
giving so much power to our agents and
that I think is just so dangerous. Most
people are not ready for their agent to
wield all the power that OpenClaw gives
it. So that's why I'm a proponent of
building your own solution because then
you truly understand and control what
your agent is doing and you can
customize it to the exact level of
control that you need for your agent.
And so don't get me wrong, like Cisco
says here, from a capability
perspective, OpenClaw is groundbreaking.
That's why I want to use it as a
reference point for building the memory
system and the proactive part of the
agent. It's everything that personal AI
assistant developers have wanted to
achieve for literally years at this
point, but it's just way too risky for
me. And so that's why I want to take the
good components from it and just use it
as a resource. So that's what I want to
cover with you right now. There are four
components that make OpenClaw feel so
magical and these are the things that
I've replicated for myself. And I want
to stay pretty high level here because I
encourage you to go through this process
yourself. And it is so so easy. And so
within OpenCloud, we have the memory
system, the heartbeat, that's the
proactive nature of the agent, we have
the channel adapters, and the skills
registry. These are the four core
components that work so incredibly well.
And the best part about the memory
system is it's elegant, but also
extremely simple. The entire thing is
markdown driven. We have the soul.md
where the agent evolves its identity
over time. It kind of evolves the
identity of you and the user MD. The
core memories are stored and maintained
in the memory.mmd. We can also define
the agents behavior and in agents.mmd.
This is kind of like the global rules
for your coding agents. And then we're
keeping track of session logs every
single day. And for better search over
all of this, there's also a SQLite
database with a very light
implementation of rag built in as well.
So again, super elegant but super
simple. And then we have our heartbeat.
So we're leveraging this heartbeat.md.
This is a markdown document that tells
OpenClaw whenever it runs autonomously
on a scheduled basis, it should look
there to see what can I do for Cole
right now that he would appreciate. So,
it does things for us without having to
ask for it explicitly. And this is not a
new concept. There are a lot of agents
that have implemented this in the past,
but OpenClaw for the first time feels
like this agent that can do things for
us that we truly appreciate. It's not
just wasted work. And so you'll wake up
in the morning and OpenClaw will give
you this report like, "Okay, I drafted
this email and I created this pull
request in your GitHub repository." And
time and time again, people are like,
"Oh, wow. That's like really good. It
legitimately did things that I would
want it to do." And then next we have
the channel adapters. This is what
allows us to talk to OpenClaw in any
platform that we want. WhatsApp,
Telegram, Slack, Discord. The beauty of
this is pretty much anything that we'd
want to use is available out of the box.
And we support threads with a lot of
these platforms. And so we can have
multiple conversations going with our
OpenCloud instance at the exact same
time. And then last but not least, we
have the skills registry. So I know
there are the security issues with it
that I covered earlier. But the beauty
of this is even with just a single file,
we can add a new capability to open claw
like here's how I want to build
frontends, a guide for that. Here's how
it can help me generate powerpoints. And
then we can use that for ourselves very
easily, but then also share it with
other people. And so all of this
together is what gives us this magical
experience of feeling like we finally
have an ultra personalized AI agent. It
is able to remember our decisions,
preferences, and context. It can check
our services, do things for us before we
even ask. We can talk to it from
anywhere, and we can add any capability
with a single file. So it can act on our
behalf, anticipate our needs, and it
knows us better every single day. And
that's what I wanted to build for
myself. And so I'll show you here how
each of these features I have built it
into my own second brain. Starting with
the memory system. And take a look at
this. The memory files that I have for
my system is very similar to what is
built into OpenClaw. And that is on
purpose because what I did is I clone
the repo locally. I took my coding agent
which is claude code. I pointed it there
and I said, "Look at how they built
their memory system and I want you to
build it for me adapted to my tech stack
for my second brain." And it thrived on
this example. Let me tell you, coding
agents work really well when you give
them good examples. So, if we're working
on top of something that is simple and
elegant and just works really well, that
is the ultimate brain food for the
context for the coding agent. And so, it
oneshotted this whole thing for me and
even adapted it to my codebase. It has
the same rag strategy with SQLite.
Markdown is the database. And I also
added Obsidian for syncing because
something that I want to make a video on
on my channel soon. And let me know in
the comments if you're interested in
this is I took my second brain, I
deployed it to a VPS, but I still want
to have quick local searching when I'm
using the Cloud Code CLI locally. And so
I'm syncing my memory system. All these
markdown documents, I'm storing it in
Obsidian. And so my tech stack is
Obsidian for storage, Markdown obviously
for the memory system, SQLite for the
database, and I'm using Postgress when I
deploy it remotely, and then I'm using
the Claude agent SDK for the proactive
part of the agent that I'll talk about
in a little bit. And so that's my way to
run Cloud Code from my Python scripts.
And then obviously Claude Code is my
primary driver. I want to use this
because then I can use my anthropic
subscription. So, I'm not paying
hundreds and thousands of dollars for
API credits, which if you didn't know,
people have been getting their anthropic
subscriptions banned when they're using
it with OpenCloud. It's against the
Anthropic terms of service. But if we're
using Cloud Code and the Claude Asian
SDK ourself directly and we're doing it
just in our own environment, then it's
totally allowed even if you deploy it to
a VPS. And so, it's very cost-effective
to build your own second brain as well.
And then for the heartbeat, it follows a
very similar pattern. All right, Claude,
look at how the heartbeat was
implemented in OpenClaw. Let's build it
oursself with our own integrations. And
so I'm using the Claude agent SDK. It's
a scheduled job that runs every 30
minutes for me right now. And we send a
prompt into the Cloud Agent SDK. So I'm
using Cloud Code directly from my Python
script. And I'm telling it to look at my
memory, look at recent emails I've
gotten, things that are scheduled on my
calendar, my tasks in a sauna, and then
give me notifications for anything that
need my attention. And then something
I'm still working on is more of the
proactive piece where it will even build
things for me or draft emails on my
behalf. And so we can take this as far
as we want because we have all of Claude
code, but just wrapped up in a script
that we're invoking every 30 minutes. So
it makes it feel like the agent is
constantly alive thinking about how it
can do stuff for us. And then for my
adapters, I have a very simple version
of what OpenClaw has built. One of the
things that I don't like about OpenClaw
is it's really cool how many adapters we
have, but most of the time you're just
going to find one that works for you and
that's all you really need. And that's
what I found for myself. I really like
talking to my second brain in Slack.
I'll even show you. I have that pulled
up right now. I mean, it looks a little
silly cuz I got deleted messages and
things. I'm still working on testing my
whole second brain, but I can talk to it
in Slack from anywhere. It's super cool.
And that's really all I need. I don't
really need Discord and Telegram. I just
have the one platform that works for me.
So, I have this as my adapter and then
the terminal for when I'm using Cloud
Code on my desktop or laptop. That is
all I need for my adapters. But I still
did have it copy the architecture of
OpenClaw. So, it's really easy to just
with cloud code or whatever coding
agent, I can just oneshot another
adapter if I ever wanted to use
something like Discord or Microsoft
Teams. And then finally, for the skills
here, since I'm using the Cloud Agents
SDK and Cloud Code, they both have the
idea of skills just built right in. So
whenever I want to give more
instructions kind of like the skills
registry for how to do something for me
like uh generate the Excal diagram like
literally the one you're looking at
right here was built by my second brain
or ideate for content help me create
YouTube scripts I just need to create a
skill and so one of the skills I have in
my second brain is a skill on how to
create more skills and so it's very easy
for me to evolve the capabilities of my
second brain just by having a
conversation with it and yeah there's no
public registry here so I'm not able to
share my skills at least yet. I'm
working on that, but it's a lot more
secure because then I'm not downloading
potentially malicious skills. I'm just
building everything myself and it's
really easy to do so. And so I'm getting
the ultra personalized agent using
OpenClaw to build things very, very
quickly. And if there's ever an update
to OpenClaw where it adds this new thing
that's absolutely incredible, well then
I'm just going to pull the changes from
the repository, point my cloud code to
it again, and say, "Hey, they just added
this thing. Let's go ahead and build it
oursel. Now, of course, you don't have
to copy my exact tech stack, but it is
working really, really well for me, and
I do plan on putting out some more
content soon, covering more in detail
how I built this out and sharing some
resources for you. But just overall, you
have to follow this super simple
process. So, just as a quick review, you
clone the OpenCloud repo locally and
it's MIT licensed. You can do anything
you want with the code. Then you point
your coding agent at it, say, "Hey,
explain how the memory system works."
now build that into my own system. You
can specify any customizations that you
want as well to make it even better than
OpenClaw for you specifically. And then
you just repeat that for every part of
the platform that you want for yourself.
It is that easy. I mean, it kind of
feels like I'm just saying something
really obvious here, but I really
haven't seen people do this and it just
works so well for me that I have to
share it with you because this is making
a real difference for me. I like
OpenClaw. I did some experimentation
hosting it for myself when it first came
out, but I'm really really getting a lot
out of what I'm building for myself and
I feel like it's just going to get
better and better for me over time. Not
because I'm engineering something better
than Peter with OpenClaw, but because I
know exactly what I want and I can build
for that and I think that will resonate
with you as well. So again, I will have
a lot more content on my channel for my
second brain coming up soon. And I'm
doing a lot of workshops in the Dynamus
community as well, going a lot deeper
into this stuff. So, I'll have a link in
the description to Dynamus if you want
to check it out. It's my community where
I do weekly workshops. I have courses on
building agents and using AI coding
assistants. And I've got a lot of
resources coming for building your own
second brain. And so, if you appreciate
this video and you're looking forward to
more things on second brain content and
agentic engineering, I would really
appreciate a like and a subscribe. And
with that, I will see you in the next